I am working on bulding an application that analyze and provides the impact analysis of config change of network device on not only that device but also on the network (blast radius atleast).
One of the key building block of this application would be having vendor agnostic configuraiton data model which is derived for devices belonging to various vendors (cisco:ios,ios-xe,ios-xr,nxos; arista-eos; juniper-junos).
Part of this workspace, we want to only focus on that important block.
At highlevel there are two parts:
1: Convert text based config into common vendor agnostic data model
It must define common data model for network services/protocols regardless of they are configured on a give os-type (config lines will differe across os-types)
it should break down the text based config into protcol/service relevant config objects (i.e., bgp related config, interfaces related config, etc.)
Parse the raw config objects into common data models while also appending raw config lines with it.

2: Identify and register relationships between config objects 
Find out dependencies between config objects (i.e., loopback0 is being used as sourced interface to number of services, route-map is used with BGP, etc.)
Find out dangling config objects (i.e., AAA config may be using loopback100, but loopback100 is not part of config)
Create a dependency graph


Notes:
Use Python.
For defining common data model, please refer to os-specfic document from the vendor over the internet to find out what kind of attributes are there for a given service/protocol


# ----
I want to have self-sustain system that checks the latest documents from the vendor to understand the  
configuration syntax and attributes of config objects (i.e., bgp, prefix-list, interfaces, etc.) 
Then reviews the current parsers and data models, to assess if they are up to date.
It provides the detail assessnent if there gaps, data-models/parsers to be updated to address them.
Goal is to make it support os-types with not just recent os versions but also the latest versions.
Once provided the assessnent in some structure, that system should be able to take that and work on updating data-models and parsers. 