Target Audience: Engineering & System Architecture Team

1. The Strategic Pivot
We are transitioning our core Configuration Dependency Mapping engine into an open-source project. Our goal is to solve the "Trust Barrier" in enterprise networking by providing a transparent, vendor-agnostic tool that engineers can run locally without corporate "Red Tape."

By open-sourcing the base UIR and Graph logic, we establish ourselves as the source of truth for network configuration logic before we upsell the Enterprise AI and Cross-Device Impact modules.

2. The Core Value Proposition
We are moving from a "Closed Management Platform" to a "Network Assurance Standard."

The OS Tool: A local CLI that parses raw vendor configs and generates a visual/queryable dependency graph.

The Hook: It identifies "Orphaned Objects" (defined but not used) and "Shadow Dependencies" (hidden links between ACLs, Route-Maps, and Interfaces).

The Moat: Once the community adopts our UIR (Universal Intermediate Representation) as the standard for config-to-graph mapping, we own the ecosystem.

3. Technical Implementation Plan
Since the team has already developed the base parsing and UIR model, the focus now shifts to Distribution and Developer Experience (DX).

A. The "Lightweight" Engine

While our enterprise tier utilizes Neo4j for massive, multi-device topologies, the Open Source version must be Local-First.

Tech Stack: Python 3.11+.

In-Memory Graph: Use NetworkX for local graph processing to eliminate the need for an external database during the "trial" phase.

Output Formats: The CLI must output:

JSON: For programmatic integration.

Static HTML: An interactive D3.js or Cytoscape visualization that opens in a browser.

B. Functional Requirements

Zero-Telemetry: For adoption in high-security environments, the tool must be strictly local. No data leaves the machine.

Plugin-Based Parsers: The core should be decoupled from the vendor parsers. This allows the community to contribute "Cisco-legacy" or "Nokia" parsers without touching our core UIR logic.

The "Linter" Mode: Implement a CLI flag --lint that checks for logic errors (e.g., an interface referencing a non-existent ACL).

4. Developer Experience (DX) Goals
To ensure rapid adoption by network operators, we must adhere to three rules:

One-Command Install: pip install netgraph-core

One-Command Execution: netgraph map ./my_config.txt

Human-Readable Error Messages: If a parse fails, tell the user exactly which line of the vendor config broke the model.

5. The "Upsell" Boundary (Internal Only)
It is vital that the team understands where the "Open" ends and the "Enterprise" begins:

Feature	NetGraph-Core (Open Source)	Enterprise (Proprietary)
Data Model	Single Device UIR	Multi-Device Global Topology
Database	In-Memory / NetworkX	Neo4j / High-Concurrency
Logic	Syntax & Dependency Mapping	The "Nightmare Library" (Expert System)
Interface	CLI / Static HTML	MCP-Powered AI Chat & Web UI
Integrations	Local File System	ServiceNow, Jira, CI/CD Pipelines
6. Immediate Next Steps for the Team
Refactor: Decouple the current parser logic from any proprietary database connectors.

Visualization: Create a prototype of the "Single-File HTML" output using the existing UIR data.

CI/CD: Set up a public-ready GitHub repository structure (even if it’s currently private) with a focus on a "Docs-First" approach.